 ------------ Civilization (11/1/2020) Turns 1-30 as Russia ------------

Start of game -

Turns 1-2

  Start with two units...

    1. Settler.
    2. Scout or Warrior.

  Goal:
    Find suitable location to colonize city.

Turns 3-10

    With city
    With scout or warrior
    
    1. Choose production for the city (scout / warrior / some building).
    2. Continue to scout with warrior.
    3. Choose science based on surrounding resources or strategies.
    4. Meet nearby civilizations.
    5. Pickup huts / be given rewards for exploring.
    6. Barbarians discover first city - providing a threat that maybe you have to return your first unit to deal with.

Turns 10-15

    With city
    With scout or warrior
    With (scout / warrior / some building) built during last phase

    1. Choose second production from first city - another simple unit (warrior / scout) technical unit (builder / ranged unit) or monument
    2. City grows in population allowing player to customize tiles that the city should work.
      a. Tiles provide resources for city - food / production / faith / science. Some of those are global resources (faith / science / money) while others are specific to the city
          i. food allows a city to grow faster (food per turn - food compution per turn) until food > food need to grow population
          ii. Units / buildings cost N production and from tiles around the city gains M production per turn.
    3. Given they money gained from the last phase until now - should a unit be purchased to fight off invaders.
    4. Initial research done - second research option much mor complicated. Pick a research that either -
      a. Allows the player to capture animals - boosting food and opening the research tree to horseback riding - a faster means of travel.
      b. Start developing their religion or faith.
      c. Explore militaristic option - exposing resources (like iron) that must be found to boost the player quickly into a militaristic boost via swordsmen
      d. Discover masonry - given the player a boost to production by harvesting stone and letting them build a wonder such as the pyramids
      e. Pottery to provide food to the capital
      f. Sailing - allow the player to explore more.
    5. Likely some fights will happen during these turns.

Turns 16-26

    With city
    With scout / warriors
    
    1. Likely you are in some fights with nearby barbarians trying to ruin your day
    2. You are weighing the tradeoffs of building a worker vs building a settler
    3. You've found some locations with your initial scout you are considering the benefits of settling to
    4. You have a hurt warrior from defending against barbarians and are trying to safetly heal them
    5. You are picking civics and enacting the resulting policies - this is giving you options like
      a. Doing more damage vs barbarians.
      b. Providing additional production to cities.
      c. Giving extra money from traderoutes
    6. Science continues to provide hard decisions - the tree really expands and choices compound with the previous. This gives you the option to start planning for the late game.
      a. Choose sciency things the bootstrap your science.
      b. Choose militaristic things for immediate help against barbarians / foreign invaders.
      c. Choose production oriented things to start building up your empire for a move.
      d. Lots of stuff here...

Turns 27-30ish

    1. Hopefully you have gotten a hold of your barbarian situation via some militaristic tactics - etc
    2. First AI reaches out to you - you trade locations of capitals
    3. I lost a slinger unexpectedly... that sucked

Random Bits and Bobs

  1. Pressing enter ends your turn when you've made all your decisions.
  2. Some of the beginning turns feel very much like giving the player the opportunity to optimize for food / production. And trading one for the other (production for granary, as an example)
  3. Cities should auto manage citizens to resources around them but allow players to optimize for things they may want - extra production for a needed wonder or an extra citizen / etc.
  4. Middle clicking on tiles centers camera at that tile.

